# Discovering BDD

## Behaviour Driven Development

BDD is a way for software teams to work that closes the gap between business people and technical people by:
- encouraging collaboration across roles
- building shared understanding about the desired behaviour of the system
- producing system documentation that guides system behaviour and is automatically checked against it
- working in rapid, small iterations to increase feedback and the flow of value

How it works:
1. Take a small upcoming change (e.g. user story) and have a conversation about the details using concrete examples
2. Document those examples in an automatable way
3. Code - implement each behaviour using the tests to guide development

Discovery - Formulation - Automation

Each change is small, and these three steps are taken for each step. This is the practical implementation of the concept of iteration.

Each time you make a change, you've added value to the system and are ready to respond to feedback.

The documented examples become an asset known as 'Living Documentation', as the code reflects the documentation, and the documentation reflects the team's shared understanding of what the code does.

Cucumber is a tool that facilitates BDD

Living Documentation can be automatically validated against the application it describes, and thus is tells you when it is out of date!

## BDD and Agile

You need an agile process in order to do BDD.

BDD needs to be done at the last responsible moment as there is a great emphasis on conversations rather than trying to write everything down.

This is because what will be written down in the end as 'Living Documentation' is the tests themselves.

If you try to have the conversations too early, you'll forget what you talked about.

Before BDD, define:
1. User Stories
2. Acceptance Criteria

These don't have to be exhaustive and will be fleshed out during the BDD process.

Basically, have a user story ready with some acceptance criteria. BDD is about having a *three amigos* meeting to discuss everything that needs to go into the acceptance criteria.

The three amigos are:
- Customer/business perspective
- Development perspective
- Test perspective

The whole purpose of the three amigos meeting is *discovery* about things in the story that weren't previously obvious.

Sometimes someone will have thought about something without explaining it to stakeholders. Sometimes the group will have a question that no-one has an answer to. Having this discussion is a great way to get everyone on the same page.

Why are questions a valuable output from a discovery session?
- We get a sense of how ready we are to work on this User Story
- They give us something valuable to work on
- We have turned unknown unknowns into known unknowns

## Introduction to Formulation

Once all three (or more) amigos are happy, you can translate the specification into Gherkin, the specification language for Cucumber.

We need to know some key words:
```ruby
Feature
Scenario
Given
When
Then
And
```

The first two should be familiar from using RSpec.

A scenario is an example. Both are keywords in Gherkin.
# Scenarios

```
Scenario Listener is within range
	Given Lucy is located 15m from Sean
	When Sean shouts "free bagels at Sean's"
	Then Lucy hears Sean's message
```

Scenario is the example.
Given is the background
When is the action.
Then is the expected result

Scenarios are focusses on the system, so don't include business goals.

How to install cucumber?

```bash
bundle init
```

```ruby
# Gemfile
source "https://rubygems.org"

gem 'cucumber'
gem 'rspec-expectations'
```

```bash
bundle install
cucumber --init
```

Store features in a 'features' folder as **<feature_name>.feature**.

```hear_shout.feature
Feature: Hear shout

	Scenario: Listener is within range
	Given Lucy is located 15 metres from Sean
	When Sean shouts "free bagels at Sean's"
	Then Lucy hears Sean's message
```

You can then run cucumber to see what code you need to write for the steps (step definitions).

Step definitions are the Ruby code that correspond to the Gherkin.

