#TypeScript
### TypeScript Benefits

TypeScript is strongly typed and therefore has the following benefits:
1. Better error feedback
2. Better autocomplete & code hints
3. Custom types (in addition to strings, booleans etc.)
4. Self-documenting
### Introduction and Setup

What is Typescript?
1. A superset of JavaScript that compiles down to JavaScript
2. Allows the use of strict types
3. Supports modern JavaScript features such as arrow functions, `let`, `const`
4. Add extra features such as generics, interfaces, tuples etc.

Typescript forces us to write cleaner code and enforces type-safety which allows for an easier time when bug-fixing.

All TypeScript files need to be compiled to JavaScript in order to be run on Node/Bun. You can do this by using the TypeScript Compiler CLI Tool (`tsc`):

```sh
tsc index.ts
```

### Type Basics

TypeScript uses type inferences, therefore when you assign a number to a variable, there is no need to explicitly type this out:

```ts
let age = 30
// EQUALS
let age: number = 30
```

#### TSConfig for Better Workflow

```sh
tsc --init
```

Uncomment the following two lines so that the compiler knows which files to compile, and where to output them as JavaScript:

```json
"rootDir": "./src",
"outDir": "./dist",  
```

>[!info]
>The `dist` folder will be hidden in VSCode by default.

Use the following command to recompile on every code change:

```sh
tsc --watch
```

Also use the watch flag with Node or Bun to run the compiled files after each new compilation:

```sh
bun --watch dist/index.js

// or

node --watch dist/index.js
```

### Arrays and Object Literals

Typing syntax requires the use of square brackets to denominate an array, and the type of elements within the array must be explicitly typed:

```ts
let names: string[]
```

>[!info]
>Type inference still applies here. If you create a variable and assign an array with (only) strings in it, TypeScript knows that the variable is of String Array type.

>[!warning]
>If your array contains multiple types then it is considered a Union type, and therefore if you create a new variable from an element within that array, TypeScript will not know what type that element (and therefore the new variable) is:
>```ts
>let things = [1, true, "hello"]
>const t = things[0]
>// type of t is (string | number | boolean)[]
>```

For objects, you basically write out the object as the type definition, but with the type of each value instead of the value itself:

```ts
let user: {firstName: string, age: number, id: number} = {
firstName: "mario",
age: 30,
id: 1.
}
```

>[!warning]
>You can't add another property to an object with a defined typing structure, as its structure has already been defined. If you have not defined the type then it is just a JavaScript object and so you would be able to add new properties.

### Functions

In TypeScript you need to specify the type of arguments in the definition. You can also specify the return type by adding a colon after the paretheses:

```ts
function addTwoNumber(a: number, b: number): number {
	return a + b
}
```

```ts
const subtractTwoNumbers = (a: number, b: number): number => {
	return a - b
}
```

TypeScript will also infer your return type if it is not specified, based on the type of your return statement. If you do not return anything (e.g. just `console.log` something, then the type is `void`.

### Any

The `any` type is a special type. 

A variable of the type `any` can take on any type and its type can change.

For example:

```ts
let age: any

age = 30
age = false
```

This is essentially just JavaScript.

Try to avoid this as you get fewer hints and worse error messages.

A variable can have type any if you declare a variable and give it no value:

```ts
let title
// type of the title variable is any
```

You can use the `any` type to create arrays that are allowed to any type:

```ts
let things: any[] = ['hello', true, 30, null]

things.push({id: 123})
```

You can also use the any type to create functions that take in and return different types depending on whatever arguments are give:
`
```ts
function addTogether(value: any): any {
	return value + value
}
```

>[!info]
>Try not to use `any` unless migrating from JS to TS

### Tuples

Tuples are like arrays but with a strict order:

```ts
let person = [string, number, boolean] = ["mario", 30, true]
```

You will not be able to make the first element of the tuple anything other than a string. The second element must be a number, and the third a boolean.

You can also use *named tuples* to add context:

```ts
let user: [name: string, age: number]

user = [peach, 25]
```

When you destructure an array into separate variables as below, TypeScript knows the type of each variable since you have explicitly specified it within the function:

```ts
function useCoords(): [number, number] {
	const lat = 100
	const long = 50
	return [lat, long]
}

const [lat, long] = useCoords()
```

### Interfaces

Interfaces allow you to define a structure that other data structures can adhere to. Other data structures can include classes, objects, or even other interfaces.

```ts
interface Author {
	name: string,
	avatar: string
}

const authorOne: Author = {
	name: "mario",
	avatar: "/img/mario.png"
}
```

>[!info]
>Interfaces define custom data types.

You can specify variables of specific interface data types as function arguments:

```ts
function createPost(post: Post): void {
	console.log('Created post ${post.title}' by ${post.author.name})
}
```

You can specific array element types as interfaces:

```ts
let posts: Posts[] = []
// all array elements must adhere to the Posts interface
```

>[!warning]
>TypeScript will not infer that something (a variable, class, other interface) adheres to a particular interface. You must specify this explicitly:
>```ts
>const newPost: Post = {
>//...
>}
>```


### Type Aliases

Similar to interfaces, however you must assign it (use `=`):

```ts
type Rgb = [number, number, number]

function getRandomColor(): Rgb {
	const r = Math.floor(Math.random() * 255)
	const g = Math.floor(Math.random() * 255)
	const b = Math.floor(Math.random() * 255)

	return [r, g, b]
}

const colorOne = getRandomColor();
```

In the above example, the type alias `Rgb` has been set as a tuple with 3 `number` elements. The function `getRandomColor()` must return an instance of the `Rbg` type (as it has been declared following the colon).

The variable `colorOne` will be inferred by VSCode to return an instance of the `Rgb` type.

Here is another example of a type alias being set as an object literal, and a use case:

```ts
type User = {
	name: string
	score: number
}

const userOne: User = { name: 'mario', score: 75 }

function formatUser(user:User): void {
	console.log(`${user.name} has a score of ${user.score}`);
}

formatUser(userOne)
// Output: mario has a score of 75
```

### Union Types

Lets TypeScript know that a variable or value can be one of several different types.

```ts
let someId: number | string
```

**Variable as Union Type**

```ts
let someId: number | string

someId = 1
someId = "2"
```

**Default Value**

```ts
let email: string | null = null

email = 'mario@netninja.dev'
email = null
```

**Type Alias as Union Type**

```ts
type Id = number | string

let anotherId: Id

anotherId = "236bfkhfsa82e"
anotherId = 5
```

**Pitfalls**

When writing a function, any props or methods relating to an argument must be common to all types of the union (this doesn't apply outside of functions, as it would be clear what type a variable is). 
`
```ts
function swapIdType(id: Id): Id {
	// can only use props and methods common
	// to both number and string types
	// parseInt(id) --> not allowed
	return id
}
```

But there is a way around this...

### Type Guards

**Checking primitive data types**

Union types present a problem for functions. A function doesn't know what an argument's type is until the function is called (and thus the argument is given). Therefore in order to get around this, you can simply check the type within the function, and use methods/props based on this check.

```ts
function swapIdType(id: Id): Id {
	if (typeof id === "string") {
		return parseInt(id)
	} else {
		return id.toString()
	}
}
```

**Checking interfaces** (by using ***tagged interfaces***)

Chuck a `"type"` property into an interface:

```ts
interface User {
	type: 'user'
	username: string
	email: string
	id: string
}

interface Person {
	type: 'person'
	firstname: string
	age: number
	id: Id
}

function logDetails(value: User | Person): void {
	if (value.type === 'user') {
		console.log(value.email, value.username);
	}
	if (value.type === 'person') {
		console.log(value.firstname, value.age);
	}
}
```

