We use Jira to apply the agile scrum process.

This is useful to devs and testers in agile.

Everyone is moving from waterfall to agile.

We will be using an online banking application to demonstrate the topic.

Features of the application:
- Login
- Dashboard
- Profile

Very important to understand the *process* - otherwise the interviewer will know you have fake experience.

**What constitutes an agile team**
___
There are different frameworks - agile basically says - ship the product, incrementally, every few days.

Agile asks us to ship the product on a regular basis.

In order to achieve this goal there are different frameworks.

- Scrum
- Kanban Board

Scrum is the most commonly used amongst all the organisations.

An agile team should have around 6-7 people - 5 devs and 2 testers.

In a scrum project, all team members are agile team members. There are no devs and testers regardless what their actual role in the company is.

You will also have a business analyst and a product owner.

Business analysts are being cut for cost-cutting purposes.

Agile Team Members (development team) - Developers, QAs, Business Analysts

There is also a product team, a product owner, and a scrum master.

All of these constitute an agile team.

**What is EPIC?**
___
	An epic is a high-level feature, or requirement (e.g. a login page).

We have 3 epics to solve as part of the above project.

**What is the user story?**
___
A user story is the smallest unit of work in the agile framework.

It is the smallest individual unit of work in an epic.

Epics are large work items broken down into a set of stories.

The point is to articulate how a piece of work will deliver a particular value to the customer.

For example, the login page might require 15 pieces of work (inputs, button, text, links etc...).

These pieces are user stories.

Epics are larger work items broken down into a set of stories.

User stories are a few sentences in simple language that outline the desired outcome. They must describe an outcome that provides value to the customer.

The story:

As a [], I want to [], so that [].

As an online banking customer, I want to enter my username and password so that I can submit my credentials into the portal.

An epic user story is a large one that cannot be delivered as defined within a single iteration - split it into smaller user stories.

**Create User Stories and Epics in Jira**
___
Use the create button.

Add the description, priority, labels, reporter, assignee, epic link (which epic is this linked to), sprint.

 Always assign a story to an epic.

**What are components?**
___
You can use components to show which agile team each story is assigned to.

The component is each team.

Team 1, team 2.

I can't see components in my version of Jira.

Generally speaking, check the component to see what team a story belongs to.

**Releases**
___
I think these features (including components) are for the team lead only.

You put the release name, work started date, release date, and description.

You can tie an issue to a release.

This is important!

**User Story Description**
___
From the customer's point of view!

For example, the creation of the edit boxes (username and password input).

Description:

As a client, I should be able to enter my email and password in the login page, so that I can login.

This is the business value from the client's perspective.

This is the duty of the product owner. Then he will sit with the entire scrum team to decide on the acceptance criteria.

**Acceptance Criteria**
___
This is the technical aspect of the description for a user story (e.g. error handling etc.).

So the product owner adds all the information for the user story. This story will then go onto the backlog.