Capybara - provides a Domain Specific Language that can describe actions executed by a web driver. The DSL tells Capybara what element in the DOM to locate, and executes an action such as clicking a button, link etc.

Selenium - a popular web driver (virtual user)

Other web drivers:
- rack::test
- selenium-web driver
- capybara-WebKit

Testing Flow:
1. Cucumber - parses plain English and maps Given/Then/When to Ruby code
2. Capybara maps the commands to the driver's API
3. Driver executes the action

Drivers:
1. Capybara-WebKit, Capybara-Mechanize are headless browsers (no gui)
2. Rack::Test is a Rails/Sinatra specific tool that directly accesses controller classes instead of using HTTP
3. Selenium WebDriver communicates with traditional browsers (e.g. Chrome, Edge, FireFox) using JSON wire protocol.

So in short, Cucumber is. BDD tool allowing you to write tests in essentially English (Gherkin Syntax). It bridges a gap between technical and non-technical staff, improving trust between stakeholders, and acting as documentation for software.

Capybara is a Ruby-based testing framework that allows you to simulate user interactions with a website such as clicking buttons, filling out forms etc. It is used for end-to-end and integration testing.

Selenium allows you to programmatically interact with a browser. It is useful for testing websites in real browsers.

Process: 
1. Write Cucumber Scenarios in Gherkin syntax, detailing the expected behaviour of the application.
2. For each step in the Cucumber scenarios, write corresponding step definitions in code. These definitions will use Capybara and Selenium to automate interactions.
3. Execute the tests using Cucumber, which drives the automation through the step definitions. Capybara and Selenium WebDriver work behind the scenes to interact with the web app and validate its behaviour.

This stack allows users to create readable and maintainable automated tests for web applications, facilitating collaboration, ensuring the correctness of the software, and providing confidence in the application's behaviour across different browsers and platforms.

Capybara can be used with:
1. Cucumber
2. RSPEC
3. Minitest

Benefits of Capybara:
- No setup for Rails/Rack applications
- Intuitive API
- Switch between testing using headless browser and actual browser with no changes to your tests
- Synchronisation features mean you don't have to manually wait for async processes to complete

Capybara method cheat sheet:
https://gist.github.com/mritunrai/41c533595cc6f66709d7ba7f25dc4eb2